# `getStaticProps`

If you export a function called ``getStaticProps`` _(Static Site Generation)_ from a page, Next.js will pre-render this page at build time using the props returned by ``getStaticProps``.

## When should I use ``getStaticProps``?

- The data required to render the page is available at build time ahead of a user’s request
- The data comes from a headless CMS
- The page must be pre-rendered (for SEO) and be very fast — ``getStaticProps`` generates HTML and JSON files, both of which can be cached by a CDN for performance
- The data can be publicly cached (not user-specific). This condition can be bypassed in certain specific situation by using a Middleware to rewrite the path.

## When does ``getStaticProps`` run?
- It always runs on the server and never on the client. 
- It always runs during ``next build``
- As ``getStaticProps`` runs only on the server-side, it will never run on the client-side. It won’t even be included in the JS bundle for the browser, so you can write direct database queries without them being sent to browsers.

## Statically generates both HTML and JSON
When a page with ``getStaticProps`` is pre-rendered at build time, in addition to the page HTML file, Next.js generates a JSON file holding the result of running ``getStaticProps``.

This JSON file will be used in client-side routing through ``next/link`` or ``next/router``. When you navigate to a page that’s pre-rendered using ``getStaticProps``, Next.js fetches this JSON file (pre-computed at build time) and uses it as the props for the page component. This means that client-side page transitions will not call ``getStaticProps`` as only the exported JSON is used.

## Where can I use ``getStaticProps``?
getStaticProps can only be exported from a page. You cannot export it from non-page files, _app, _document, or _error.